🆕 `article` - CSS Nesting (#5573)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/articles/css-nesting/index.md

---
layout: layouts/blog-post.njk
title: CSS Nesting
description: >
  One of our favorite CSS preprocessor features is now built into the language: nesting style rules.
subhead: >
  One of our favorite CSS preprocessor features is now built into the language: nesting style rules.

> date: 2023-03-07

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-03-08
```

update date

---

Before nesting, every selector needed to be explicitly declared, separately from
one another. This leads to repetition, stylesheet bulk and a scattered authoring
experience.

{% Compare 'worse', 'Before' %}
```css
.nesting {
  color: hotpink;
}

.nesting > .is {
  color: rebeccapurple;
}

.nesting > .is > .awesome {
  color: deeppink;
}
```
{% endCompare %}

After [nesting](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-nesting-1/), selectors can be
continued and related style rules to it can be grouped within.

{% Compare 'better', 'After' %}
```css
.nesting {
  color: hotpink;

  > .is {
    color: rebeccapurple;

    > .awesome {
      color: deeppink;
    }
  }
}
```
{% endCompare %}

[Try this in browser](https://codepen.io/web-dot-dev/pen/RwYLRdr).

Nesting helps developers by reducing the need to repeat selectors while also
co-locating style rules for related elements. It can also help styles match the
HTML they target. If the `.nesting` component in the previous example was
removed from the project, you could delete the entire group instead of searching
files for related selector instances.

**Nesting can help with:**
- Organization
- Reducing file size
- Refactoring

> {% BrowserCompat 'css.nesting' %}

Reviewer: I don't think this is in BCD right now, trying to find out where it ought to go, maybe attached to the `&` selector. We can add it in later though.

Author: confirmed it's not, this is a stub. 

i filed a request/issue for it back in jan https://github.com/mdn/mdn/issues/359

agree we can add it later. 

```suggestion
<!-- {% BrowserCompat 'css.nesting' %} -->
```

> Set to arrive in Chrome stable 112 and available to [try in Safari Technical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nesting is available from Chrome 112 and also available to [try in Safari Technical
```

Reviewer: Once we have BCD we can remove this line as then it will be kept up to date.

Author: yep, this was added assuming the BCD data wouldnt be ready
